# An Introduction

*In a land of magic and mystic, the arcane arts can be learned and wielded through the use of certain artifacts. These tools and the great power they possess, while meant to be used for reasons good and kind, can be twisted from their original purpose and instead used for naught but the sole purpose to attain great fame and glory. Regardless of intentions, there does exist a great magician. Renowned by all, they journey the land in search of new magics to wield and display.*

*Alas, the arcane arts are fickle by nature, and too much gathered together can become volatile. Such was the case for the wizardry this magician kept. In only one brief moment of weakness, they lost control over the magic contained within their artifact: a deck of playing cards. As a result, the card and the power within them were released, enrapturing the land in a labyrinth crawling with wrathful amalgamations of the spirits of the cards.*

*It is in the labyrinth of chaos that you, one of the jokers of this deck, awakens. Realizing that, unlike the other spirits, you have your own free will, the magician has asked you to help him with resealing the power of the cards and restoring order. In a disorienting maze of confusion and horror, will you succeed in the task given to you? Or will you fade away into the abyss now stretching across the land?*

# The End-User
This web application is a simple RPG game with mechanics based around a standard deck of playing cards. Over the course of the game, the end-user faces a series of monsters that they must defeat with a 13-card deck. The end-user is intended to be anyone looking to have some fun for a spell and play a small, addictive deck-building game without having to install anything.

# The Specifics

## Start Screen
The end user, upon opening index.html (found in the 'backend/public' folder) in the browser, will be greeted with a title screen and the ability to either register a new account or login if they have already registered. Both options lead to a page (either a register page or a login page, respectively), where the end user can input their username and password. The application will either add their credentials to the user database (if registering) or log the end user in via checking their input against the database (if logging in). Once successfully logged in, the end user will have the option to sign out, start a new game, or (if they had stopped playing mid-game in a previous session) continue their unfinished game. At all times, the end user will also be able to click the 'Leaderboard' button to see the current high scores. While the end user will be able to start a new game without signing in, this limits the end user and does not allow them the full experience of the application (i.e. their personal highscore will not be saved). For this reason, it is highly recommended that the end user register and login before playing.

## Battle Screen
This screen appears once the end user has chosen to either start a new game or continue an unfinished game. The top of this screen shows the end-user’s character on the left and the current monster’s character on the right. Above each is a health bar and a shield to indicate their respective life and shield/block amounts. The end-user will be able to refer to these through out the game, as they will update accordingly as each battle progresses. The bottom half of the battle screen contains information on the end-user’s 13-card deck. The end-user will have cards drawn at the start of each turn such that they have 5 cards in their hand and will be able to play up to 3 cards from their hand per turn. The number of cards moves that the end-user has remaining for the current turn is displayed below the end-user’s current hand, as well as an ‘End Turn’ button that can be clicked to end the end-user’s turn early, if they so wish. In addition to this button, there is also 'Battle Log' in the bottom-left corner. Clicking this button will expand a container containing text (on the current battle only) on how much damage either the monster or end-user take each turn, as well as how much the end-user heals or raises their shield/black amount, when they do. This is meant to provide the end-user a second way to view and understand what is happening during the battle. Below the 'End Turn' button is the ‘Draw Pile’ and the ‘Discard Pile’. Their presence is meant to provide the end-user insight as to how many cards are left in their deck. When their deck is empty, the discard pile is reshuffled into the draw pile.

Only 1 card can be played at a time via clicking the desired card twice. Each suit provides a different capability: Hearts heal the player, diamonds provide the player more shields, spades damage the monster physically and increase damage when played in succession, and clubs damage the monster magically (and thus at a higher beginning potency that does not stack as with the spades). The base potency of the cards (before modifiers are applied) is determined by their number, with Aces being low (representing the number 1), Jacks being worth 11, Queens being worth 12, and Kings being worth 13. This means that, for example, an ace of hearts will heal the end-user one hit point and a two of spades will attack the monster with a base damage amount of two. Modifiers are applied to attacks that scale with the total values of a suit in your deck - ie. club attacks are scaled by the total value of clubs in your deck.

## Rewards Screen
After each round, the end-user will be brought to a rewards screen, where they will be provided the opportunity to upgrade their deck in preparation for the next battle. Shown on this screen will be the end-user's current deck in its entirety. They will have the opportunity to select two cards that they wish to upgrade. Upgrading a card means that its potency is increased by one (i.e. selecting an Ace of Hearts will upgrade it to a Two of Hearts). Below the shown deck is a 'Done' button, to be clicked when the end-user wishes to confirm their upgrade choices. Once this is clicked, the end-user will be brought back to the Battle Screen with their new deck in order to face a new, tougher monster (note: each new monster has more health and attacks with a higher base damage).

## Game Over Screen
The game continues until the end-user's character dies. Upon this condition, a 'Game Over' screen will appear in addition to a button that allows the end-user to play again from the beginning of the game. In addition, there is a button to view the Leaderboard and a button to return to the main application screen. Under these buttons is a message telling the end-user what round they died on, so that the end-user knows which round they have to get to beat their high-score. Have fun!~

# CRUD Requirements
Under RESTful notation, an API must use the proper set of verbs: GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. This application accomplishes this with the use of the following API: http://deckofcardsapi.com. Using this API, the end user can GET a new deck at the start of a new game. This deck is then stored in the application's database to successfully execute the rest of the set of verbs. Through this, the end user can also GET this deck whenever they return to continue an unfinished game. As previously stated, upon starting a new game, the deck's contents are POSTed into the application's database. The deck can then be UPDATEd by the end-user in two ways: with the autosave feature, which tracks specifically which pile (the end user's hand, their discard pile, or their draw pile) each card of the deck is in; or by the end user upgrading/changing the cards in their deck during the Rewards Screen phase. When the end user finishes a game or decides to start a new game rather than completing an unfinished game, the end user's deck is DELETEd. By being able to perform all CRUD operations, this application successfully implements a RESTful API.
